COMBAT
======
As in most rogue-like games, you attack an adjacent monster by
attempting to move onto it.

At this time, your current real statistics on to-hit, damage, defense,
and armor protection are always displayed. It is felt that the
character would know (or quickly discover) how well any weapon, armor,
etc. actually work. By comparing different weapons, armor, and shield
combinations, you can decide what martial configuration is best for
your character.  Keep in mind that cost of equipment does not
necessarily indicate how good it is (though it is a good rule of
thumb).

The 'F' command allows you to select precisely which actions you will
take in a combat round -- parry high, thrust low, etc.  You have
several maneuver points for use in each combat round, depending on
level, status as a gladiator, etc. At the beginning of the game, your
combat options are already set for you, but as you progress, and
possibly gain more maneuvers, the preset options will not be
automatically updated, so remember to do it yourself periodically, as
you may be losing the chance at more maneuvers if you do not.

The following are your combat options:

ATTACK: Punch, Cut, Strike, Shoot, or Thrust (depending on weapon) -- 1 pt.
BLOCK: Prepare to block or parry enemy attack                      -- 1 pt.
RIPOSTE: BLOCK/ATTACK (thrusting weapons only)                     -- 2 pts.
LUNGE: More chance to hit than usual, does more damage             -- 2 pts.

Keep on selecting maneuvers until you have no maneuver points left.
It does absolutely no good to have points left over.

Following the choice of the maneuver, you must select a line for the
action: L (low), C (center), or H (high). Some monster will tend to
attack in a given line (short/small monsters, for example, will
tend to attack low), so this choice is meaningful. If you block or
riposte low, when the attack is high, you will have wasted the effect
of the block. On the other hand, if you block low twice, and the
attack is low, you will defend doubly. If you don't block or riposte
at all, it will be particularly easy for monsters to hit you.

Keep on selecting maneuvers until you have no maneuver points left.
Hitting the BACKSPACE or DELETE key will erase your current choices
and let you start over. When you are satisfied, confirm your
choice with the RETURN key. Once a choice is selected, it stays in
effect until you change it; you need not reset it for each attack.
Selecting combat maneuvers takes no time.

If you are in VERBOSE mode (settable with the 'O' command) you'll see
just what the monster is doing, whether the blocks are effective,
and so on. Otherwise you'll just be told whether you hit or miss.

If you select VERBOSE mode, you will be able to see just where your
opponent attacks. Some monsters may show a particular sequence or
location which they attack in; you can use this information to your
advantage by setting your own attacks and blocks accordingly.

You can try multiple identical maneuvers if you like. If you don't try
any BLOCKS at all, it will be easier than usual for your opponent to
hit.  Even if you don't get the location correct, a BLOCK still does
some good. A RIPOSTE attacks in the same line as its block, if you got
the line right. I.e., if you are attacked high, a high riposte will
get a free attack back. If you are attacked high three times, a high
riposte will get three free attacks back. Each block or riposte is
good for your entire move; no matter how many monsters attack you you
will be able to block or riposte each one. Naturally, each attack can
only be used against one monster.

Heavy edged weapons and smashing weapons do CUTTING or STRIKING
damage. Your strength affects this, so if it is high you will do
much more damage, and if low, much less.

Light edged weapons, missile weapons, and pointed weapons do THRUSTING
or SHOOTING attacks, whose chance to hit is greatly affected by your
dexterity. Note that you can't use a missile weapon very well in
ordinary combat (i.e. when you move adjacent to a monster) -- you
would be using a crossbow as a club, for instance. Instead,
use the 'f' command to fire missiles when at long range, and change
to a melee weapon for close combat.

A note on weapons use: A weapon is not prepared for combat unless
it is in the "weapon hand" slot in your inventory. Anywhere else
means you are just carrying it around.... Two-handed weapons will
automatically take both hand slots, so remember to have both
hands free if you want to wield such a weapon.

Shields, of course, will only have effect in the "shield" slot,
while armor is only considered to be worn if it is in the "armor"
slot.
