WHAT YOU SEE ON THE SCREEN 
==========================

Map: The large central area represents a map of the current
environment.  On it, the highlighted @ always represents the player,
letters represent monsters, non-highlighted @'s represent other
humans, and other characters represent either objects or terrain
features.  The map will take up as much of the screen as is possible,
so if you are running in a windowing system make the omega window as
large as it can be.

Since the same character can represent different things or entities
(even in the same environment), a good command to remember is 'x'
(examine), which will tell you precisely what you are dealing with in
any situation. This is especially helpful before you have terrain
types like deep pools and lava pits (!) memorized.... You can use the
CONFIRM option to avoid walking absent-mindedly into a trap, pool,
etc.  The '/' command will give you more general help, for example
telling you that the ')' character represents a weapon. The '?'
command can give you either a command list or this file. The command
lists will differ depending whether you are in the countryside, or a
dungeon or city.

Messages: Directly above the map window is a three line area that
shows current messages from the game describing what is going on.
The ^p command can show old messages (The last 10 are kept).

Location: Directly beneath the map window is a one line description
of your current location or environment.

Statistics: Beneath the Location line are two lines that show
the current state of the player's statistics such as strength,
dexterity, constitution, agility, intelligence, power, mana,
gold pieces, carrying capacity, etc. When the value given looks
like  number1 / number2, number1 represents the current value,
and number2 represents a maximum value.

Flags: In the upper right corner of the omega display, below the date
and time, and phase of the moon, you will see four flags: The top
describes your food status, the second describes your status with
respect to poison, the third your health (diseased or healthy), and
the fourth, your mode of transportation.  While you are diseased you
will not regain hit points naturally. While you are poisoned you will
take damage periodically until cured or killed (or the poison's effect
can naturally fade).  When your food runs out, and you start starving,
you will take more and more damage as time passes until finally you
die of starvation. It's always a good idea to stock up at the
Commandant's.... If you manage to acquire a horse, your SPEED will
probably improve (unless you were very fast already). Regardless of
SPEED, having a horse will save some time in countryside movement, and
may also help out your combat strength. However, horses tend not to
enjoy going into dungeons....

Combat Abilities: In the lower right of the display, your current
combat abilities are displayed. These are:

Hit: is your current chance to hit with the weapon currently wielded,
     the higher the better. This factor varies with your DEXTERITY,
     experience level, and the weapon wielded.
Dmg: is the maximum amount of damage you can do with a hit. This factor
     varies with your STRENGTH and the weapon wielded.
Def: is your defensive rating, how hard it is for monsters to hit you. This
     factor varies with your AGILITY and experience level, and with
     the shield being used.
Arm: is your armor rating, how much damage is absorbed when a monster
     hits you before you take damage. Armor only absorbs normal damage;
     various effects and forms of magic may penetrate armor. This factor
     varies with the armor worn.
Spd: is a speed factor, how quickly or how slowly you move. This factor is
     calculated about a base of 1.00; 2.00 means you move twice as fast;
     0.50 means you move twice as slowly as normal. This factor varies
     with your AGILITY and the amount of weight you are carrying.
     Every monster has its own speed factor. The maximum speed is 5.0;
     the minimum is ?

Magic spells, special items, and monster effects can affect all these factors,
positively and negatively.
