Theogony of Omega,

being an explication of the Ways of the Gods of Omega.

Know ye, O ignorant ones, that Omega is the battleground of the mighty forces
of Law and Chaos. Powerful are the Champions and Avatars of the two great
forces, but most powerful of all are the Gods who, it is rumored, have
been summoned from other planes to represent the two forces.

On the side of Law:

  Odin, God of Vengeance -- followers of Odin vow to eradicate the taint
of chaos wherever it may be found. Odin rewards his faithful with the
power to strike strong blows against the Legions of Chaos.

  Athena, Goddess of Justice -- devotees of Athena, while prepared to
fight the forces of chaos, choose a more intellectual approach to the
battle, marshalling the more subtle powers of magic in their striving.

On the side of Chaos:

  Set, God of Destruction -- worshippers of Set will follow any path to
destroy and corrupt Law and its minions. Set teaches his followers powers
equally as potent as those of Odin.

  Hecate, Goddess of Illusion -- Hecate matches Athena's wisdom with 
deception, and matches Athena's defensive powers with destructive
abilities.

Followers of any of these deities must be careful to keep to the true path --
the wrath of a God is fearsome.... It is also said the Gods are jealous --
honoring another deity, even of the same alignment, is an extremely bad idea.
On the other hand, any act against a God of the opposite alignment would
be looked on kindly by your patron deity.

It should be noted that there are still other Gods of Omega. The Druids
think themselves beyond the struggles of Law and Chaos and attempt to
maintain a Balance between the two -- they are despised by all the
aligned Gods. The ArchDruid is said to command powers greater than
any other cleric.

The mysterious Lords of Destiny are said to preside over the struggles
of Law and Chaos as a referee rules a bout. Their powers are said to
be extremely subtle and pervasive, and while no one has ever seen this
power displayed, the self-appointed clerics of these mysterious beings
claim great abilities.  Certain it is that the aligned Gods have never
acted against the followers of the Lords of Destiny, though whether
this is because of their power, or because they offer no threat, is
unknown.
