WHAT YOU SEE ON THE SCREEN 
==========================

Map: The large central area represents a map of the current environment.  On
it, the highlighted '@' always represents the player, letters represent
monsters, non-highlighted @'s represent other humans, and other characters
represent either objects or terrain features. The map will take up as much of
the screen as is possible, so if you are running in a windowing system make the
Omega window as large as it can be.

Since the same character can represent different things or entities (even in the
same environment), a good command to remember is 'x' (examine), which will tell
you precisely what you are dealing with in any situation. This is especially
helpful before you have terrain types like deep pools and lava pits (!)
memorized.... You can use the CONFIRM option to avoid walking absent-mindedly
into a trap, pool, etc... The '/' command will give you more general help, for
example telling you that the ')' character represents a weapon. The '?' command
can give you either a command list or this file. The command lists will differ
depending whether you are in the countryside, or a dungeon or city.

Messages: Directly below the map window is a three line area that shows current
messages from the game describing what is going on. The ^p command shows old
messages.

Statistics: To the right of the map window are the player's statistics such as
strength, dexterity, constitution, agility, intelligence, power, mana, gold
pieces, carrying capacity, etc... When the value given looks like "X/Y", X
represents the current value, and Y represents a maximum value.

Combat Abilities: To the right of your statistics, your current combat abilities
are displayed. These are:

Hit: Your current chance to hit with the weapon currently wielded, the higher
     the better. This factor varies with your DEXTERITY, experience level, and
     the weapon wielded.
Dmg: The maximum amount of damage you can do with a hit. This factor varies with
     your STRENGTH and the weapon wielded.
Def: Your defensive rating; how hard it is for monsters to hit you. This factor
     varies with your AGILITY and experience level, and with the shield being
     used.
Arm: Your armor rating, how much damage is absorbed when a monster hits you
     before you take damage. Armor only absorbs normal damage; various effects
     and forms of magic may penetrate armor. This factor varies with the armor
     worn.
Spd: A speed factor; how quickly or how slowly you move. This factor is
     calculated about a base of 1.00; 2.00 means you move twice as fast; 0.50
     means you move twice as slowly as normal. This factor varies with your
     AGILITY and the amount of weight you are carrying. Every monster has its
     own speed factor. The maximum speed is 5.0; the minimum is infinitesimal.

Magic spells, special items, and monster effects can affect all these factors,
positively and negatively.

Flags: To the right of your combat abilities, you will see four flags: The top
describes your food status, the second describes your status with respect to
poison, the third your health (diseased or healthy), and the fourth is your
mode of transportation. While you are diseased you will not regain hit points
naturally. While you are poisoned you will take damage periodically until
cured or killed (or the poison's effect can naturally fade). When your food runs
out, and you start starving, you will take more and more damage as time passes
until finally you die of starvation. It's always a good idea to stock up at the
Commandant's... If you manage to acquire a horse, your SPEED will probably
improve (unless you were very fast already). Regardless of SPEED, having a horse
will save some time in countryside movement, and may also help out your combat
strength. However, horses tend not to enjoy going into dungeons...

Location: Just below your statistics is a one-line description of your current
location or environment.

Legend: Below the location is a legend showing the names of the visible mobs and
items.
