


omega(6)                 GAMES AND DEMOS                 omega(6)



NAME
     omega - a hack-style game with quests.

SYNOPSIS
     omega [save file]

DESCRIPTION
     omega is a complex rogue-style game of dungeon  exploration.
     Unlike  other  such  games,  there  are  a number of ways to
     "win", depending on various actions taken during  play.  The
     ways  you  can  get  your  name on the hiscore board include
     becoming the highest ranked head of a guild, sect,  college,
     etc.,  as  well as gaining the most points figured from pos-
     sessions and experience.  The  game  (via  the  oracle)  may
     impose  some structure on your exploration, but you need not
     follow all of the  oracle's  advice.  There  *is*  a  "total
     winner" status, by the way.

     If the save file is not specified, omega  gives  the  player
     the  choice  of  generating  a  random character, or playing
     themselves, doing a short quiz to determine an approximation
     of  their  abilities.  If the save file is given, omega will
     restore that save file, and if successful, the save file  is
     deleted.  Note that some installations of omega compress the
     save file, using either compress(1) or gzip(1) - if this  is
     the  case,  and  you  have  a save file that is uncompressed
     (such files are generated by omega if it receives  a  signal
     during  play,  for  example),  you  can  compress  it  (with
     compress(1) or gzip(1)) and remove the .Z or .gz  extension.
     Alternatively, you may simply run with the uncompressed save
     file - this will not affect the game in any way,  but  takes
     more disk space between games.

     omega offers a richness of playing detail that goes beyond a
     simple game like rogue. However, the majority of gameplay is
     very similar to rogue, hack,  ultrarogue,  larn,  and  other
     such games. The player is represented by the highlighted "@"
     symbol, objects and  terrain  features  are  represented  by
     non-alphabetic  symbols,  monsters  are  represented  by the
     various upper and lower case letters, and other  humans  are
     represented by a non-highlighted "@".

     omega currently consists of a countryside in which are sited
     a  city,  various villages, several dungeons, and some "spe-
     cial" sites, such as the temples of the various priesthoods.
     The game starts in the city of Rampart, where all the guilds
     have headquarters. As a dungeon is explored,  all  generated
     levels  are  saved  in  memory. However, only one dungeon is
     "remembered" at a time, so if you enter  two  dungeons,  the
     first  will  be forgotten (it will be regenerated should you
     wish to enter it again). However,  if  a  dungeon  is  "com-
     pleted",  this  fact  will  be remembered, basically meaning



Sun Release 4.1           Last change:                          1






omega(6)                 GAMES AND DEMOS                 omega(6)



     that the unique monster at the bottom  will  not  be  regen-
     erated if you've killed it already.


SEE ALSO
     compress(1), gzip(1), nethack(6)

AUTHOR
          Laurence Brothers














































Sun Release 4.1           Last change:                          2



